Data Analyst:-  

It is the science of analyzing raw data to find trends and answer questions.
A data analyst's job is to collect, organize, and analyze data to help businesses make informed decisions. They use data to: 
Identify trends and patterns: Data analysts use statistical tools to find patterns and trends that can be used for predictive and diagnostic analytics. 
Improve performance: Data analysts help businesses measure and improve their performance. 
Optimize operations: Data analysts can help businesses optimize their operations. 
Understand customers: Data analysts can help businesses better understand their customers. 
Inform strategic decision-making: Data analysts can help businesses make strategic decisions. 

Data analysts perform a variety of tasks, including: 
1. Gathering data from primary and secondary sources. 
2. Cleaning and organizing data. 
3. Analyzing data using statistical tools. 
4. Preparing reports for leadership. 
5. Collaborating with others to identify opportunities for improvement. 
6. Creating documentation for stakeholders.

Python:
It is both compiled and interpreted languages. Python is a popular programming language.
Python can be used on a server to create web applications.
Python executes the code line by line.

Data Types:-  Programming, data type is an important concept. Variables can store data of different types, and different types can do different things.

Python has the following data types built-in by default, in these categories:

Text Type:	str
Numeric Types:	int, float, complex
Sequence Types:	list, tuple, range
Mapping Type:	dict
Set Types:	set, frozenset
Boolean Type:	bool
Binary Types:	bytes, bytearray, memoryview
None Type:	NoneType

Data Types:
1. On the basis of what value does it store.
2. On the basis that value can be changed once created.


1. Mutable              2. Immutable


Conditional Statements:- 
Set of Statements that helps us break, the flow of execution depending on some conditions.

Types:- 1. If       2. If-Else      3. If-Elif-Else         4. Nested If

Loops: Loops in Python are used to repeat actions efficiently.
       The main types are For loops (counting through items) and While loops (based on conditions).
  While Loop:- 
        In Python, a while loop is used to execute a block of statements repeatedly until a given condition is satisfied.
        When the condition becomes false, the line immediately after the loop in the program is executed.
Syntax:
while expression:
    statement(s)

For Loop:-  Python For Loops are used for iterating over a sequence like lists, tuples, strings, and ranges.
            For loop allows you to apply the same operation to every item within loop.
            Using For Loop avoid the need of manually managing the index.
            For loop can iterate over any iterable object, such as dictionary, list or any custom iterators.
Syntax:
for iterator_var in sequence:
    statements(s)